---
title: 'Day 0'
author: John Patrick Amata
layout: post
tags: []
---

## Why

This blog is for my algorithmic studies in C++. A reason for such a dedicated study is that tech interviews today are broken. At least the ones that use algorithmic problem solving to hire engineers. Such a metric makes it gameable.

It's a free market. We must exploit such opportunities for our benefit.

But the chief reason for this, is that I am also looking for an excuse to learn some C++

I know that algorithmic problem solving wont really get me to learn that much of C++. Looking at the solutions of top algorithmic contests, nobody even uses pointers. Nonetheless, solving toy problems in C++ is still a way to get comfortable around it

## Time

I could perhaps dedicate an hour or two of my day, but economically, sinking more effort into studying algorithms is <mark>just not a good use of one's time</mark>.

I could mine more value by learning soft skills and business skills, or learning more frameworks or domains.

Time spent socializing and learning things like how to be more likeable will also put me more ahead in life than spending my time going through CLRS or grinding algorithmic problems

THUS:

I am only spending <mark>30 mins</mark> for each day of study. I aim to do this for at least 100 days.

## Blog

So it's to play with some tiny toy coding problems... got it. But why have this blog?

This algorithms blog is more for accountability. I know that there'll be several days where I'll get bored to study. That is inevitable. This blog, thanks to its hompage where I could see the dates for each post, it will immediately remind me of the days when I got lazy. I can set the blog page as my browser startup homepage or newtab page and it'll get me going better.

The dates also provides me data of when to review the previous questions for [spaced repetition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spaced_repetition).

Third, I can also use the notes here to do a quick review of things I've learned.

Finally, having another site boosts my web presence. One's gotta build his personal brand man 😂🚀

Let's go out on an adventure

<style>
    .yt-container {
    position: relative;
    width: 100%;
    padding-bottom: 56.25%; 
    height: 0;
}

    .yt-container iframe {
    position: absolute;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
}

</style>
<div class="yt-container">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y_0u45fszaQ?si=LT-bxIGsYOKKDYOl" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Pirate's life 🏴‍☠️
